Microsoft Visual Studio - is an integrated development environment from Microsoft. It is used to develop console and graphical user interface applications along with Windows Forms or WPF applications, web sites, web applications, web services. Visual Studio supports different programming languages by means of language services, which allow the code editor and debugger to support nearly any programming language, provided a language-specific service exists. Built-in languages include C/C++ , VB.NET, C#, and F#. Support for other languages such as M, Python, and Ruby among others is available via language services installed separately. It also supports XML/XSLT, HTML/XHTML, JavaScript and CSS. 
Eclipse - This is the best alternative if you are not a big fan of Microsoft’s Visual Studio. The interface is a lot cleaner and concise than Visual Studio and the languages that are possible to use extend past the .Net Framework. Besides being the number on way to develop Android applications via the Android SDK, it is fully extensible to use languages such as Ruby, C, C++ and many many more.
Netbeans - This is the number one alternative to Eclipse. This program is extensible and free, and it compiles code which is a bonus. When installing Netbeans it comes with a Java server called GlassFish that you could deploy on your computer for your testing environment. This server is the second biggest server for Java next to WebSphere.
kate - is a text editor made by KDE. It has been a part of K Desktop Environment 2 since 2001. Geared towards software developers, it features syntax highlighting, code folding, customizable layouts that can be recalled via presets, regular expression support and extensibility.
gedit - is a text editor for the GNOME desktop environment, Mac OS X and Microsoft Windows. Designed as a general purpose text editor, gedit emphasizes simplicity and ease of use. It includes tools for editing source code and structured text such as markup languages. It is designed to have a clean, simple graphical user interface according to the philosophy of the GNOME project, and it is the default text editor for GNOME.
