The results of this research are from TIOBE Programming Community index for March.
1. First place: C - is an imperative languages and has facilities for structured programming and allows lexical variable scope and recursion. Many later languages have borrowed directly or indirectly from C, including D, Go, Rust, Java, JavaScript, Limbo, LPC, C#, Objective-C, Perl, PHP, Python, Verilog (hardware description language), and Unix's C shell. These languages have drawn many of their control structures and other basic features from C.
2. Second place: Java - is a computer programming language that is concurrent, class-based, object-oriented, and specifically designed to have as few implementation dependencies as possible. It is intended to let application developers "write once, run anywhere" .The language derives much of its syntax from C and C++, but it has fewer low-level facilities than either of them.
3. Objective-C - Objective-C is a general-purpose, object-oriented programming language that adds Smalltalk-style messaging to the C programming language. It is the main programming language used by Apple for the OS X and iOS operating systems and their respective APIs, Cocoa and Cocoa Touch. Objective-C source code program files usually have .m filename extensions, while Objective-C header files have .h extensions, the same as for C header files.
4. C++ - is a general purpose programming language that is free-form and compiled. It is regarded as an intermediate-level language, as it comprises both high-level and low-level language features. It provides imperative, object-oriented and generic programming features. C++ has influenced many other programming languages, for example, C# and Java.
5. C# - is a multi-paradigm programming language encompassing strong typing, imperative, declarative, functional, procedural, generic, object-oriented (class-based), and component-oriented programming disciplines. C# is built on the syntax and semantics of C++. C# is intended to be a simple, modern, general-purpose, object-oriented programming language.
